# ETNS # A Simulator for Electric Transportation Networks

## Description
ETNS is a short name for Electric Transportation Network Simulator.

It is a software for modeling electric guided transportation networks 
such as trolleybuses, tramways, metro and trains. It is a tool meant
to plan, analyse and diagnose electric transportation networks.

It is not game or "real world" 3D simulator like MSTS or OpenRails.

## Goals
This software aims to be a "commercial grade" simulation platform. Most of
all it aims to be **free** and accessible; so network planners,
traction power engineers, consulting engineers and manufacturers can
easily exchange information amongst themselves without having to worry
about expensive proprietary software licences. Every one can view results,
share information, propose modifications and have access to the same data.
Reducing misunderstandings, speeding up design and giving easy access to
best industry practices.

## Roadmap
### Current state
Currently only an idea on paper developpement has started but no release candidate
yet. If you are interrested to contribute please contact me by email.

### Short term
* Console based application able to parse train files, network files 
and route files to offer basic simulation capabilities.
* Export results to .CSV for processing in Excel.
* Output document/report quality charts

### Long term
* Add a GUI
* Output document/report quality charts
* Add a library of common rolling stock, locomotives, wagons and EMU
* Add support for importing RailML generated by other simulation software
* Add support for railway signals
* Add support for self powered vehicles (dual catenary/battery powered cars)
* Add support for energy storage solutions
* Add support for AC networks
* Add support for simulating mixed electric/diesel networks
* Add an extensible plugin system
* Add the possibility to run on a server/cluster to speed up simulation
* Replace some of the code by C/C++
* Support for other languages (fr)

## Tool validation
A tool is only as good as the quality of the results.

If you are working for a transit agency and are opened to submiting real world data
to help validate the tool please get in touch.

## Supported platforms
This software is written in Python and aims to be a cross-platform simulation
tool. It is currently developped under MacOS X, and has not been tested under 
other OSes to this date.

# Licence
Copyright© 2016 Alexandre Robert de Massy, released under GPLv3 licence.